CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Getting Started

### Set up MicroK8s

```shell
sudo snap install microk8s --channel=1.32/stable --classic
```

Enable the required addons:
```shell
sudo microk8s addons repo add community https://github.com/canonical/microk8s-community-addons --reference feat/strict-fix-multus
sudo microk8s enable hostpath-storage
sudo microk8s enable multus
```

### Setup local Docker registry

Install Docker

```shell
sudo snap install docker
```

Create a local registry

```shell
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry:2
```

### Install test pre-requisites

```shell
sudo snap install rockcraft --classic
```

### Build and Deploy Ella

Build the image and push it to the local registry

```shell
rockcraft pack
sudo rockcraft.skopeo --insecure-policy copy oci-archive:ella-core_v0.0.11_amd64.rock docker-daemon:ella-core:latest
docker tag ella-core:latest localhost:5000/ella-core:latest
docker push localhost:5000/ella-core:latest
```

Run End-to-End tests

```shell
pip install tox
tox -e integration
```

## How-to Guides

### Build the Frontend

Install pre-requisites:

```shell
sudo snap install node --channel=20/stable --classic
```

```shell
npm install --prefix ui
npm run build --prefix ui
```

### Build the Backend

Install pre-requisites:

```shell
sudo apt install clang llvm gcc-multilib libbpf-dev
sudo snap install go --channel=1.24/stable --classic
```

Generate the eBPF Go bindings:

```shell
go generate ./...
```

Build the backend:

```shell
go build cmd/core/main.go
```

### Build documentation

```shell
mkdocs build
```

### Build the Container image

```shell
sudo snap install rockcraft --classic --edge
rockcraft pack -v
sudo rockcraft.skopeo --insecure-policy copy oci-archive:ella-core_v0.0.11_amd64.rock docker-daemon:ella-core:latest
docker run ella-core:latest
```

### View Test Coverage

```shell
go test ./... -coverprofile coverage.out
go tool cover -func coverage.out
```

## References

### Embedded Database

Ella uses an embedded [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) database to store its data. Type mappings between Go and SQLite are managed 
using [sqlair](https://github.com/canonical/sqlair).

Commit message:

docs: expand contributing guide (#482)
Signed-off-by: Guillaume Belanger <guillaume.belanger27@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Ella Core is an open-source project and we welcome contributions from the community. This document provides guidelines for contributing to the project. Contributions to Ella Core can be made in the form of code, documentation, bug reports, feature requests, and feedback. We will judge contributions based on their quality, relevance, and alignment with the project's tenets.

## Getting Started

### Set up MicroK8s

```shell
sudo snap install microk8s --channel=1.32/stable --classic
```

Enable the required addons:
```shell
sudo microk8s addons repo add community https://github.com/canonical/microk8s-community-addons --reference feat/strict-fix-multus
sudo microk8s enable hostpath-storage
sudo microk8s enable multus
```

### Setup local Docker registry

Install Docker

```shell
sudo snap install docker
```

Create a local registry

```shell
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry registry:2
```

### Install test pre-requisites

```shell
sudo snap install rockcraft --classic
```

### Build and Deploy Ella

Build the image and push it to the local registry

```shell
rockcraft pack
sudo rockcraft.skopeo --insecure-policy copy oci-archive:ella-core_v0.0.11_amd64.rock docker-daemon:ella-core:latest
docker tag ella-core:latest localhost:5000/ella-core:latest
docker push localhost:5000/ella-core:latest
```

Run End-to-End tests

```shell
pip install tox
tox -e integration
```

## How-to Guides

### Build the Frontend

Install pre-requisites:

```shell
sudo snap install node --channel=20/stable --classic
```

```shell
npm install --prefix ui
npm run build --prefix ui
```

### Build the Backend

Install pre-requisites:

```shell
sudo apt install clang llvm gcc-multilib libbpf-dev
sudo snap install go --channel=1.24/stable --classic
```

Generate the eBPF Go bindings:

```shell
go generate ./...
```

Build the backend:

```shell
go build cmd/core/main.go
```

### Build documentation

```shell
mkdocs build
```

### Build the Container image

```shell
sudo snap install rockcraft --classic --edge
rockcraft pack -v
sudo rockcraft.skopeo --insecure-policy copy oci-archive:ella-core_v0.0.11_amd64.rock docker-daemon:ella-core:latest
docker run ella-core:latest
```

### View Test Coverage

```shell
go test ./... -coverprofile coverage.out
go tool cover -func coverage.out
```

## References

### Embedded Database

Ella uses an embedded [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) database to store its data. Type mappings between Go and SQLite are managed using [sqlair](https://github.com/canonical/sqlair).
