README.md, before:

# Ella

Ella is a wireless private mobile network.

Typical mobile networks are complex, expensive, and difficult to operate. Forget microservices, external databases, complex configurations, and expensive hardware. Ella is a single binary that runs on a single machine.

Use Ella where you need 5G connectivity: in a factory, a warehouse, a farm, a stadium, a ship, or a remote location.

## Key features

* **5G compliant**: Ella is a 5G compliant core network. It can integrate with any 5G radio access network.
* **Performant data plane**: Ella uses eBPF to implement the data plane. It is fast, secure, and reliable.
* **Simple UI**: Ella has a web-based user interface for managing subscribers, radios, device groups, and network slices.
* **Complete HTTP API**: Ella has a complete REST API. You can automate everything you can do in the UI.
* **Encrypted communication**: Ella's API and UI are secured with TLS.

## Tenets

Building Ella, we make engineering decisions based on the following tenets:
1. **Simplicity**: We are commited to develop the simplest possible mobile network out there. We thrive on having a very short "Getting Started" tutorial, a simple configuration file, a single binary, an embedded database, and a simple UI.
2. **Reliability**: We are commited to develop a reliable mobile network you can trust to work 24/7. We are commited to deliver high quality code, tests, and documentation. We are commited to expose useful metrics and logs to help users monitor their network.
3. **Security**: We are commited to minimizing the attack surface of the private network and to use secure encryption protocols to protect the data of our users.

## Documentation

### Getting Started

Install the snap:

```bash
sudo snap install ella --channel=edge --devmode
```

Generate (or copy) a certificate and private key to the following location:
```bash
sudo openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout /var/snap/ella/common/key.pem -x509 -days 1 -out /var/snap/ella/common/cert.pem -subj "/CN=example.com"
```

Start the service:
```bash
sudo snap start ella.ellad
```

Navigate to `https://localhost:5000` to access the Ella UI.

### Reference

#### API

| Endpoint                      | HTTP Method | Description             |
| ----------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| `/api/v1/status`              | GET         | Get status              |
| `/api/v1/metrics`             | GET         | Get metrics             |
| `/api/v1/subscribers`         | GET         | List subscribers        |
| `/api/v1/subscribers`         | POST        | Create a new subscriber |
| `/api/v1/subscribers/{id}`    | GET         | Get a subscriber        |
| `/api/v1/subscribers/{id}`    | PUT         | Update a subscriber     |
| `/api/v1/subscribers/{id}`    | DELETE      | Delete a subscriber     |
| `/api/v1/radios`              | GET         | List radios             |
| `/api/v1/radios`              | POST        | Create a new radio      |
| `/api/v1/radios/{id}`         | GET         | Get a radio             |
| `/api/v1/radios/{id}`         | DELETE      | Delete a radio          |
| `/api/v1/network-slices`      | GET         | List network slices     |
| `/api/v1/network-slices`      | POST        | Create a new slice      |
| `/api/v1/network-slices/{id}` | GET         | Get a network slice     |
| `/api/v1/network-slices/{id}` | PUT         | Update a network slice  |
| `/api/v1/network-slices/{id}` | DELETE      | Delete a network slice  |
| `/api/v1/profiles`            | GET         | List profiles           |
| `/api/v1/profiles`            | POST        | Create a new profile    |
| `/api/v1/profiles/{id}`       | GET         | Get a profile           |
| `/api/v1/profiles/{id}`       | PUT         | Update a profile        |
| `/api/v1/profiles/{id}`       | DELETE      | Delete a profile        |


#### Configuration

##### Example

```yaml
log-level: "info"  # debug, info, warn, error
db:
  path: "ella.db"
interfaces: 
  n3: 
    name: "enp3s0"
    address: "127.0.0.1"
  n6:
    name: "enp6s0"
  api:
    name: "enp0s8"
    port: 5000
    tls:
      cert: "/etc/ssl/certs/ella.crt"
      key: "/etc/ssl/private/ella.key"
```

#### Connectivity

Ella uses 4 different interfaces:

- **API**: The HTTP API and UI (HTTPS:5000)
- **N2**: The control plane interface between Ella and the 5G Radio (SCTP:38412)
- **N3**: The user plane interface between Ella and the 5G Radio (SCTP:2152)
- **N6**: The user plane interface between Ella and the internet

![alt text](connectivity.png)

#### Acknowledgements

Ella is built on top of the following open source projects:
- [Aether](https://aetherproject.org/)
- [eUPF](https://github.com/edgecomllc/eupf)

#### Contributing

We welcome contributions to Ella. Please read our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.

Commit message:

chore: standardize json responses
Signed-off-by: Guillaume Belanger <guillaume.belanger27@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Ella

Ella is a wireless private mobile network.

Typical mobile networks are complex, expensive, and difficult to operate. Forget microservices, external databases, complex configurations, and expensive hardware. Ella is a single binary that runs on a single machine.

Use Ella where you need 5G connectivity: in a factory, a warehouse, a farm, a stadium, a ship, or a remote location.

## Key features

* **5G compliant**: Ella is a 5G compliant core network. It can integrate with any 5G radio access network.
* **Performant data plane**: Ella uses eBPF to implement the data plane. It is fast, secure, and reliable.
* **Simple UI**: Ella has a web-based user interface for managing subscribers, radios, device groups, and network slices.
* **Complete HTTP API**: Ella has a complete REST API. You can automate everything you can do in the UI.
* **Encrypted communication**: Ella's API and UI are secured with TLS.

## Tenets

Building Ella, we make engineering decisions based on the following tenets:
1. **Simplicity**: We are commited to develop the simplest possible mobile network out there. We thrive on having a very short "Getting Started" tutorial, a simple configuration file, a single binary, an embedded database, and a simple UI.
2. **Reliability**: We are commited to develop a reliable mobile network you can trust to work 24/7. We are commited to deliver high quality code, tests, and documentation. We are commited to expose useful metrics and logs to help users monitor their network.
3. **Security**: We are commited to minimizing the attack surface of the private network and to use secure encryption protocols to protect the data of our users.

## Documentation

### Getting Started

Install the snap:

```bash
sudo snap install ella --channel=edge --devmode
```

Generate (or copy) a certificate and private key to the following location:
```bash
sudo openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout /var/snap/ella/common/key.pem -x509 -days 1 -out /var/snap/ella/common/cert.pem -subj "/CN=example.com"
```

Start the service:
```bash
sudo snap start ella.ellad
```

Navigate to `https://localhost:5000` to access the Ella UI.

### Reference

#### API

##### Endpoints

| Endpoint                      | HTTP Method | Description             |
| ----------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------- |
| `/api/v1/status`              | GET         | Get status              |
| `/api/v1/metrics`             | GET         | Get metrics             |
| `/api/v1/subscribers`         | GET         | List subscribers        |
| `/api/v1/subscribers`         | POST        | Create a new subscriber |
| `/api/v1/subscribers/{id}`    | GET         | Get a subscriber        |
| `/api/v1/subscribers/{id}`    | PUT         | Update a subscriber     |
| `/api/v1/subscribers/{id}`    | DELETE      | Delete a subscriber     |
| `/api/v1/radios`              | GET         | List radios             |
| `/api/v1/radios`              | POST        | Create a new radio      |
| `/api/v1/radios/{id}`         | GET         | Get a radio             |
| `/api/v1/radios/{id}`         | DELETE      | Delete a radio          |
| `/api/v1/network-slices`      | GET         | List network slices     |
| `/api/v1/network-slices`      | POST        | Create a new slice      |
| `/api/v1/network-slices/{id}` | GET         | Get a network slice     |
| `/api/v1/network-slices/{id}` | PUT         | Update a network slice  |
| `/api/v1/network-slices/{id}` | DELETE      | Delete a network slice  |
| `/api/v1/profiles`            | GET         | List profiles           |
| `/api/v1/profiles`            | POST        | Create a new profile    |
| `/api/v1/profiles/{id}`       | GET         | Get a profile           |
| `/api/v1/profiles/{id}`       | PUT         | Update a profile        |
| `/api/v1/profiles/{id}`       | DELETE      | Delete a profile        |

##### Responses

Ella API responses are JSON objects with the following structure:

```json
{
  "result": "Result content", // Any
  "error": "Error message",  // String
}
```

#### Configuration

##### Example

```yaml
log-level: "info"  # debug, info, warn, error
db:
  path: "ella.db"
interfaces: 
  n3: 
    name: "enp3s0"
    address: "127.0.0.1"
  n6:
    name: "enp6s0"
  api:
    name: "enp0s8"
    port: 5000
    tls:
      cert: "/etc/ssl/certs/ella.crt"
      key: "/etc/ssl/private/ella.key"
```

#### Connectivity

Ella uses 4 different interfaces:

- **API**: The HTTP API and UI (HTTPS:5000)
- **N2**: The control plane interface between Ella and the 5G Radio (SCTP:38412)
- **N3**: The user plane interface between Ella and the 5G Radio (SCTP:2152)
- **N6**: The user plane interface between Ella and the internet

![alt text](connectivity.png)

#### Acknowledgements

Ella is built on top of the following open source projects:
- [Aether](https://aetherproject.org/)
- [eUPF](https://github.com/edgecomllc/eupf)

#### Contributing

We welcome contributions to Ella. Please read our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started.
