docs/tutorials/getting_started.md, before:

---
description: A hands-on introduction to Ella Core for new users.
---

# Getting Started

In this tutorial, we will deploy, initialize, and configure Ella Core. We will use Multipass to create a virtual machine with multiple network interfaces, install Ella Core inside the virtual machine, access the Ella Core UI, initialize Ella Core, and configure it.

## Pre-requisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need a Ubuntu 24.04 machine with the following specifications:

- 8GB of RAM
- 4 CPU cores
- 30GB of disk space

## Setup Multipass

From the Ubuntu machine, install Multipass:

```shell
sudo snap install multipass
```

Create two lxc networks:

```shell
lxc network create n3
lxc network create n6
```

Create a Multipass instance with two additional network interfaces:
```shell
multipass launch noble --name=ella-core --network n3 --network n6
```

Connect to the instance:
```shell
multipass shell ella-core
```

Validate that the instance has the two additional network interfaces:
```shell
ip a
```

You should see that the instance has four network interfaces: `lo`, `ens3`, `ens4`, and `ens5`.

## Install Ella Core

Inside of the `ella-core` Multipass instance, install the Ella Core snap:
```shell
sudo snap install ella-core --channel=edge --devmode
```

!!! info

    The configuration file for Ella Core is located at `/var/snap/ella-core/common/core.yaml`. By default, this file will point to the `ens4` and `ens5` network interfaces. If you have different network interface names, you can update the configuration file accordingly.

Start Ella Core:
```shell
sudo snap start ella-core.cored
```

Validate that Ella Core is running:

```shell
sudo snap services ella-core.cored
```

You should see that the service is active:

```shell
ubuntu@ella-core:~$ sudo snap services ella-core.cored 
Service          Startup   Current  Notes
ella-core.cored  disabled  active   -
```

Exit the Multipass instance:
```shell
exit
```

## Access the Ella Core UI

From the host Ubuntu machine, retrieve the IP address of the first network interface.

```shell
multipass list
```

You should see three IP addresses. Take note of the first one. In this example, the IP address is `10.103.62.227`.

```
guillaume@courge:~$ multipass list
Name                    State             IPv4             Image
ella-core               Running           10.103.62.227    Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
                                          10.243.161.26
                                          10.117.122.101
```

Navigate to `https://10.103.62.227:5002` to access Ella Core's UI.

You should see the Initialization page.

![Initialize Ella Core](../images/initialize.png){ align=center }

## Initialize Ella Core

In the Initialization page, create the first user with the following credentials:

- Email: `admin@ellanetworks.com`
- Password: `admin`

After creating the user, you will be redirected to the login page. Use the credentials you just created to log in.

You will be redirected to the dashboard.

Ella Core is now initialized and ready to be used.

## Configure Ella Core

Here, we will navigate through the Ella Core UI to create a radio, a profile, and a subscriber.

### Create a Radio

Navigate to the `Radios` page and click on the `Create` button.

Create a radio with the following parameters:

- Name: `test`
- TAC: `001`

### Create a Profile

Navigate to the `Profiles` page and click on the `Create` button.

Create a profile with the name `default`. You can keep the default values for the other parameters:

- Name: `default`
- UE IP Pool: `172.250.0.0/16`
- DNS: `8.8.8.8`
- MTU: `1500`
- Bitrate Uplink: `200 Mbps`
- Bitrate Downlink: `100 Mbps`

### Create a subscriber

Navigate to the `Subscribers` page and click on the `Create` button.

Create a subscriber with the following parameters:

- IMSI: Click on "Generate" to automatically generate the MSIN.
- Key: Click on "Generate" to automatically generate a key.
- Sequence Number: Keep the default value.
- Profile: `default`

!!! success

    You have successfully deployed, initialized, and configured Ella Core. You can now use Ella Core to manage your private 5G network.

## Destroy the Tutorial Environment

When you are done with the tutorial, you can destroy the Multipass instance:

```shell
multipass delete ella-core
```

You can also delete the two lxc networks:

```shell
lxc network delete n3
lxc network delete n6
```

Commit message:

chore: validate tutorial
Signed-off-by: Guillaume Belanger <guillaume.belanger27@gmail.com>

docs/tutorials/getting_started.md, after:

---
description: A hands-on introduction to Ella Core for new users.
---

# Getting Started

In this tutorial, we will deploy, initialize, and configure Ella Core. We will use [Multipass](https://canonical.com/multipass/docs) to create a virtual machine with multiple network interfaces, install Ella Core inside the virtual machine, access the Ella Core UI, initialize Ella Core, and configure it.

## Pre-requisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need a Ubuntu 24.04 machine with the following specifications:

- 8GB of RAM
- 4 CPU cores
- 30GB of disk space

## Setup a Virtual Machine with multiple network interfaces

From the Ubuntu machine, install Multipass:

```shell
sudo snap install multipass
```

Create two lxc networks:

```shell
lxc network create n3
lxc network create n6
```

Create a Multipass instance with two additional network interfaces:
```shell
multipass launch noble --name=ella-core --network n3 --network n6
```

Validate that the instance has been created with the two additional network interfaces:

```shell
multipass list
```

You should see the following output:
```shell
guillaume@courge:~$ multipass list
Name                    State             IPv4             Image
ella-core               Running           10.103.62.227    Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
                                          10.243.161.26
                                          10.117.122.101
```

You should see three IP addresses. Take note of the first one. In this example, the IP address is `10.103.62.227`. You will use this IP address later to access the Ella Core UI.

Connect to the instance:
```shell
multipass shell ella-core
```

Validate that the instance has the two additional network interfaces:
```shell
ip a
```

You should see that the instance has four network interfaces: `lo`, `ens3`, `ens4`, and `ens5`.

## Install Ella Core

Inside of the `ella-core` Multipass instance, install the Ella Core snap:
```shell
sudo snap install ella-core --channel=edge --devmode
```

!!! info

    The configuration file for Ella Core is located at `/var/snap/ella-core/common/core.yaml`. By default, this file will point to the `ens4` and `ens5` network interfaces. If you have different network interface names, you can update the configuration file accordingly.

Start Ella Core:
```shell
sudo snap start ella-core.cored
```

Validate that Ella Core is running:

```shell
sudo snap services ella-core.cored
```

You should see that the service is active:

```shell
ubuntu@ella-core:~$ sudo snap services ella-core.cored 
Service          Startup   Current  Notes
ella-core.cored  disabled  active   -
```

Exit the Multipass instance:
```shell
exit
```

## Access the Ella Core UI

From the host Ubuntu machine, retrieve the IP address of the first network interface.

```shell
multipass list
```

You should see three IP addresses. Take note of the first one. In this example, the IP address is `10.103.62.227`.

```
guillaume@courge:~$ multipass list
Name                    State             IPv4             Image
ella-core               Running           10.103.62.227    Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
                                          10.243.161.26
                                          10.117.122.101
```

Navigate to `https://10.103.62.227:5000` to access Ella Core's UI.

You should see the Initialization page.

![Initialize Ella Core](../images/initialize.png){ align=center }

## Initialize Ella Core

In the Initialization page, create the first user with the following credentials:

- Email: `admin@ellanetworks.com`
- Password: `admin`

After creating the user, you will be redirected to the login page. Use the credentials you just created to log in.

You will be redirected to the dashboard.

Ella Core is now initialized and ready to be used.

## Configure Ella Core

Here, we will navigate through the Ella Core UI to create a radio, a profile, and a subscriber.

### Create a Radio

Navigate to the `Radios` page and click on the `Create` button.

Create a radio with the following parameters:

- Name: `test`
- TAC: `001`

### Create a Profile

Navigate to the `Profiles` page and click on the `Create` button.

Create a profile with the name `default`. You can keep the default values for the other parameters:

- Name: `default`
- UE IP Pool: `172.250.0.0/16`
- DNS: `8.8.8.8`
- MTU: `1500`
- Bitrate Uplink: `200 Mbps`
- Bitrate Downlink: `100 Mbps`

### Create a subscriber

Navigate to the `Subscribers` page and click on the `Create` button.

Create a subscriber with the following parameters:

- IMSI: Click on "Generate" to automatically generate the MSIN.
- Key: Click on "Generate" to automatically generate a key.
- Sequence Number: Keep the default value.
- Profile: `default`

!!! success

    You have successfully deployed, initialized, and configured Ella Core. You can now use Ella Core to manage your private 5G network.

## Destroy the Tutorial Environment

When you are done with the tutorial, you can destroy the Multipass instance:

```shell
multipass delete ella-core
```

You can also delete the two lxc networks:

```shell
lxc network delete n3
lxc network delete n6
```
