docs/reference/supported_5g_equipment.md, before:

---
description: Reference for supported 5G radios and user equipment (UE).
---

# Supported 5G Equipment

## Radios

Ella Core's N2 and N3 interfaces follow the 3GPP standards. This means that any radio that follows the same standards should be compatible with Ella Core.

Ella Core has been tested with the following radios and simulators:

### Commercial Radios

- **[CableFree 5G Small Cell](https://www.cablefree.net/5g-lte/5g-small-cell-base-station-radios/)**

### Open RAN Radios

- **[OpenAirInterface 5G RAN](https://openairinterface.org/)**
- **[srsRAN 5G](https://www.srslte.com/5g)**

### Simulators

- **[Aether GNBSIM](https://docs.aetherproject.org/master/onramp/gnbsim.html)**
- **[UERANSIM](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM)**

## User Equipment

Ella Core has been tested with a variety of 5G user equipment and should work with most standard-compliant devices. The following devices have been confirmed to work with Ella Core:

### iOS Devices

- **iPhone 16**

### Android Devices

- **Crosscall CORE-Z5**
- **Motorola G73 5G**
- **Motorola Moto G 5G (2024)**

### Simulators

- **[Aether GNBSIM](https://docs.aetherproject.org/master/onramp/gnbsim.html)**
- **[UERANSIM](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM)**

Commit message:

docs: add Baicells and Vankom to list of commercial radios (#968)

docs/reference/supported_5g_equipment.md, after:

---
description: Reference for supported 5G radios and user equipment (UE).
---

# Supported 5G Equipment

Ella Core's N2 and N3 interfaces follow 3GPP standards. This means that any radio and user equipment (UE) that follows the same standards should be compatible with Ella Core.

> Some integrations were validated by third-party vendors, partners, or the open-source community.

## Radios

### Commercial Radios

- **[CableFree 5G Small Cell](https://www.cablefree.net/5g-lte/5g-small-cell-base-station-radios/)**
- **[Baicells Stellar 227](https://baicells.com/Product/Details?id=17aaad9c-190a-4acc-bb91-1d5695e01167#description)**
- **[Vankom VKScell-g3](https://www.vankom.com/nps-scell-en/)**

### Open RAN Radios & SDR Platforms

- **[Ettus Research USRP](https://www.ettus.com/all-products/)**
- **[OpenAirInterface 5G RAN](https://openairinterface.org/)**
- **[srsRAN 5G](https://www.srslte.com/5g)**

### Simulators

- **[Aether GNBSIM](https://docs.aetherproject.org/master/onramp/gnbsim.html)**
- **[UERANSIM](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM)**

## User Equipment

### iOS Devices

- **iPhone 16**

### Android Devices

- **Crosscall CORE-Z5**
- **Motorola G73 5G**
- **Motorola Moto G 5G (2024)**
- **OnePlus Nord 2 CE 5G**
- **Huawei P40 5G**

### Simulators

- **[Aether GNBSIM](https://docs.aetherproject.org/master/onramp/gnbsim.html)**
- **[UERANSIM](https://github.com/aligungr/UERANSIM)**
